Fix #152 java-codegen: Document parameterized types. (#290)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/app-dev/bindings-java/codegen.rst

| ``Date``                       | ``java.time.LocalDate``                    | `Date`_                |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| ``Time``                       | ``java.time.Instant``                      | `Timestamp`_           |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| ``List`` or ``[]``             | ``java.util.List``                         | `DamlList`_            |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| ``TextMap``                    | ``java.util.Map``                          | `TextMap`_             |
|                                | Restricted to using ``String`` keys.       |                        |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| ``Optional``                   | ``java.util.Optional``                     | `DamlOptional`_        |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+

> | ``()`` (Unit)                  | **None** since the Java language doesn’t   | `Unit`_                |

Reviewer: I couldn't quite follow this sentence - the "None" at the start confused me. Maybe "There is no equivalent Java type", then "Since..." instead?

|                                | have a direct equivalent of DAML’s Unit    |                        |
|                                | type ``()``, the generated code uses the   |                        |

> |                                | Java Bindings value type.                  |                        |

Reviewer: Any particular reason for removing the reference to the specific type?

Author: I didn't want to duplicate the reference in the same row as referring to the 'Java Bindings value type' which is the title on the third column that contains the reference should suffice?

Reviewer: Oh, I see, I've misread this table! My bad.

I wonder if you might prefer to use a [list table](http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#list-table) for this? Might be easier to read and write.

+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+
| ``ContractId``                 | Fields of type ``ContractId X`` refer to   | `ContractId`_          |
|                                | the generated ``ContractId`` class of the  |                        |
|                                | respective template ``X``.                 |                        |
+--------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+

> .. _Int64: https://docs.daml.com/app-dev/bindings-java/javadocs/com/daml/ledger/javaapi/data/Int64.html

Reviewer 2: @bethaitman-da: is it okay that we use absolute URLs to docs.daml.com?

Reviewer: No, we definitely don't want to do that!

Reviewer: I think this (or something very similar) would work instead, but you'll need to test it locally - see the [docs README](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/tree/master/docs#previewing), you want to run the script with `--gen` to check this works. 
```suggestion
.. _Int64: /app-dev/bindings-java/javadocs/com/daml/ledger/javaapi/data/Int64.html
```

Author: @bethaitman-da Many thanks for the info!

Author: live-preview.sh doesn't seem to transform the links even with `--gen` but live-preview.sh does.

    public Published(Long year, String publisher) { /* ... */ }
    public Record toValue() { /* ... */ }
  }

Parameterized types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Java Code Generator uses Java Generic types to represent :ref:`DAML parameterized types <daml-ref-parameterized-types>`.

Below is a DAML fragment defining the parameterized type ``Attribute`` for use by the ``BookAttribute`` type for modeling
the characteristics of the book.

.. literalinclude:: ./code-snippets/ParameterizedTypes.daml
   :language: daml
   :caption: Com/Acme.daml

A file Java file is generated for the ``Attribute`` data type that defines the Java Generic class:

.. code-block:: java
  :caption: com/acme/Attribute.java
  :emphasize-lines: 3,8,10

  package com.acme;

  public class Attribute<a> {
    public final a value;

    public Attribute(a value) { /* ... */  }

    public Record toValue(Function<a, Value> toValuea) { /* ... */ }

    public static <a> Attribute<a> fromValue(Value value$, Function<Value, a> fromValuea) { /* ... */ }
  }

Serializing
"""""""""""

> To serialize an instance of the ``Attribute<a>`` data type function for creating the Ledger API equivalent of the attribute value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To serialize an instance of the ``Attribute<a>`` data type, a function for creating the Ledger API equivalent of the attribute value
```

is passed to the ``toValue`` method as the ``fromValuea`` argument (see the above ``com/acme/Attribute.java`` source extract).

> Below is a Java fragment to serialize an attribute with a ``java.lang.Long`` value to Ledger API representation using the *method reference*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a Java fragment that serializes an attribute with a ``java.lang.Long`` value to the Ledger API representation using the *method reference*
```

``Int64::new`` to create a new instance of the Java Bindings value type.

.. code-block:: java

  Attribute<Long> pagesAttribute = new Attributes<>(42L);

  Value serializedPages = pagesAttribute.toValue(Int64::new);

See :ref:`DAML To Java Type Mapping <daml-codegen-java-primitive-types>` for the Java Bindings value types need to be created in the `fromValue`` method.

> Note: That if the DAML type is a record that has more that one parameterized type, then a function for creating the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: If the DAML type is a record that has more than one parameterized type, a function for creating the
```

Java Binding values must be supplied for *each* such type.

Deserializing
"""""""""""""

Analogous to the generated ``toValue`` method, the deserialization method ``fromValue`` takes a function to convert a Java Bindings ``Value`` type to the expected Java type.

.. code-block:: java

  Attribute<Long> pagesAttribute = Attribute.<Long>fromValue(serializedPages,
      f -> f.asInt64().getOrElseThrow(() -> throw new IllegalArgumentException("Expected Int field").getValue());

See Java Bindings `Value`_ class for the methods to transform the Java Bindings types into corresponding Java types.

.. _Value: /app-dev/bindings-java/javadocs/com/daml/ledger/javaapi/Value.html

Non-exposed parameterized types
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If the parameterized type is contained in a type where the *actual* type is specified (as in the ``BookAttributes`` type above), then the serialization
and deserialization of the enclosing type provides the necessary methods for serialization and deserialization.

> DAML List and DAML Optional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converting List and Optional
```

> """""""""""""""""""""""""""

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
```

The serialization of the Java ``List`` and ``Optional`` types require a multiple stage conversion function where the elements must be

> converted to the Java Binding Java Types before the creating the product type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
converted to the Java Binding Java Types before the creating the ``DamlList`` or ``DamlOptional``.
```

.. code-block:: java

  Attribute<List<String>> authorsAttribute = new Attribute<List<String>>(Arrays.asList("Homer", "Ovid", "Vergil"));

  Value serializedAuthors = authorsAttribute.toValue(f -> new DamlList(f.stream().map(Text::new).collect(Collectors.<Value>toList())));

> The deserialization to the Java ``List`` and ``Optional`` types similarly require that the Java Bindings product type is converted to it's Java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The deserialization to the Java ``List`` and ``Optional`` types similarly require that the Java Bindings types ``DamlList`` and ``DamlOptional``  are converted to it's Java
```

    public Published(Long year, String publisher) { /* ... */ }
    public Record toValue() { /* ... */ }
  }

Parameterized types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we should maybe actually mention here that this section is only for completeness, and we don't expect users to make use of the `fromValue` and `toValue` methods, because they would typically come from a template that doesn't have any unbound type parameters.
@bethaitman-da: do you think this makes sense from a "user education" point of view?

Reviewer: This sounds pretty important - if there are caveats that mean you don't have to read this, they should definitely go up front!

The Java Code Generator uses Java Generic types to represent :ref:`DAML parameterized types <daml-ref-parameterized-types>`.

Below is a DAML fragment defining the parameterized type ``Attribute`` for use by the ``BookAttribute`` type for modeling
the characteristics of the book.

.. literalinclude:: ./code-snippets/ParameterizedTypes.daml
   :language: daml
   :lines: 3-11
   :caption: Com/Acme.daml

> A file Java file is generated for the ``Attribute`` data type that defines the Java Generic class:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Java codegen generates a Java file with a generic class for  the ``Attribute a`` data type:
```

.. code-block:: java
  :caption: com/acme/Attribute.java
  :emphasize-lines: 3,8,10

  package com.acme;

  public class Attribute<a> {
    public final a value;

    public Attribute(a value) { /* ... */  }

    public Record toValue(Function<a, Value> toValuea) { /* ... */ }

    public static <a> Attribute<a> fromValue(Value value$, Function<Value, a> fromValuea) { /* ... */ }
  }

Serializing
"""""""""""

To serialize an instance of the ``Attribute<a>`` data type, a function for creating the Ledger API equivalent of the attribute value

> is passed to the ``toValue`` method as the ``fromValuea`` argument (see the above ``com/acme/Attribute.java`` source extract).

Reviewer: You say "is passed" here - does that mean we do that or the user needs to do that?

Reviewer 2: Good idea, thanks.

Author: Done

> is passed to the ``toValue`` method as the ``fromValuea`` argument (see the above ``com/acme/Attribute.java`` source extract).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is passed to the ``toValue`` method as the ``fromValue`` argument (see the above ``com/acme/Attribute.java`` source extract).
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe somewhat surprisingly, this is not a typo but the generated parameter name `fromValue` for the type parameter `a` -> `fromValuea`. I agree, not very intuitive without an explanation.

Reviewer: oh, my bad! An explanation would be great.

Author: Add explanation.

Below is a Java fragment that serializes an attribute with a ``java.lang.Long`` value to the Ledger API representation using the *method reference*
``Int64::new`` to create a new instance of the Java Bindings value type.

.. code-block:: java

  Attribute<Long> pagesAttribute = new Attributes<>(42L);

  Value serializedPages = pagesAttribute.toValue(Int64::new);

> See :ref:`DAML To Java Type Mapping <daml-codegen-java-primitive-types>` for the Java Bindings value types need to be created in the `fromValue`` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See :ref:`DAML To Java Type Mapping <daml-codegen-java-primitive-types>` for the Java Bindings value types need to be created in the ``fromValue`` method.
```

    public Published(Long year, String publisher) { /* ... */ }
    public Record toValue() { /* ... */ }
  }

Parameterized types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> A :ref:`parameterized type <daml-ref-parameterized-types>` is where the actual type is specified at instantiation as *type parameters* and not as part of type definition.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we need to explain what parameterized types are. Especially considering that the DAML reference documentation doesn't go very deep into it either.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Agreed with this and Gerolf's suggestion below as well.

> The Java Code Generator uses Java Generic types to represent the DAML parameterized type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Java Code Generator uses Java Generic types to represent :ref:`DAML parameterized types <daml-ref-parameterized-types>`.
```

> Below is a DAML fragment defining the parameterized type `Attribute` for use by the `

Reviewer 2: The sentence appears to be incomplete.

Author: Done

> .. code-block:: daml

Reviewer: If possible, it's better to create a separate DAML file (in the same directory) and then pull the code in using a `literalinclude` block - that means we actually test whether the DAML compiles.

  :caption: Com/Acme.daml

  daml 1.2
  module Com.Acme where

  data Attribute a = Attribute
      with v : a

  data BookAttributes = BookAttributes with
     pages : (Attribute Int)
     authors : (Attribute [Text])
     title : (Attribute Text)

> A file Java file is generated for the `Attribute` data type that defines the Java Generic class:

Reviewer 2: I think inline code formatting is done with two back-ticks in reST. Please check the rest of the changes as well.

> A file Java file is generated for the `Attribute` data type that defines the Java Generic class:

Reviewer: Agree with the other comment, plus
```suggestion
A Java file is generated for the ``Attribute`` data type that defines the Java Generic class:
```

> Note: If the parameterized type is contained in a type where the *actual* type is specified (as in the `BookAttributes` type above), then the serialization

Reviewer 2: I think this note should go after the serialization and deserialization has been described. @bethaitman-da, what do you think?

Reviewer: That sounds sensible to me - as it is, it interrupts the link between the previous paragraph and the code block.

and deserialization of the enclosing type provides the necessary methods for serialization and deserialization.

.. code-block:: java
  :caption: com/acme/Attribute.java
  :emphasize-lines: 3,8,10

  package com.acme;

  public class Attribute<a> {
    public final a value;

    public Attribute(a value) { /* ... */  }

    public Record toValue(Function<a, Value> toValuea) { /* ... */ }

    public static <a> Attribute<a> fromValue(Value value$, Function<Value, a> fromValuea) { /* ... */ }
  }

> **Serializing**

Reviewer: This and below - if it's meant to be a title, can you use an rst title? The [docs README](https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/tree/master/docs#style-conventions) has the order of headings we conventionally use.

> To serialize an instance of the `Attribute<a>` data type function for creating the Ledger API equivalent of the attribute value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To serialize an instance of the `Attribute<a>` data type, a function for serializing the type ``a`` to the correct Java Bindings ``Value`` type
```

Author: Done

is passed to the `toValue` method as the `fromValuea` argument (see the above `com/acme/Attribute.java` source extract).

Below is a Java fragment to serialize an attribute with a `java.lang.Long` value to Ledger API representation using the *method reference*
`Int64::new` to create a new instance of the Java Bindings value type.

.. code-block:: java

  Attribute<Long> pagesAttribute = new Attributes<>(42L);

  Value serializedPages = pagesAttribute.toValue(Int64::new);

See :ref:`DAML To Java Type Mapping <daml-codegen-java-primitive-types>` for the Java Bindings value types need to be created in the `fromValue` method.

> Note: That if the DAML type is a record that has more that one parameterized field, then a function for creating the

Reviewer 2: I think we should replace `field` with type here (and the line below). Two fields of type `a` still only need one function `a => Value`.

Author: Done

Java Binding values must be supplied for *each* such fields.

> **Deserializing**

Reviewer: Same comment about headings

> The deserialization method `fromValue` requires in a similar manner, a function to convert the Java Bindings value types to it's corresponding Java type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Analogous to the generated ``toValue`` method, the deserialization method ``fromValue`` takes a function to convert a Java Bindings ``Value`` type to the expected Java type.
```

.. code-block:: java

  Attribute<Long> pagesAttribute = Attribute.<Long>fromValue(serializedPages,
      f -> f.asInt64().getOrElseThrow(() -> throw new IllegalArgumentException("Expected Int field").getValue());

See Java Bindings `Value`_ class for the methods to transform the Java Bindings types into corresponding Java types.

> .. _Value: https://docs.daml.com/app-dev/bindings-java/javadocs/com/daml/ledger/javaapi/Value.html

Reviewer: This link needs updating too :)

**Parameterized product types**

> The serialization of parameterized product types require a multiple stage conversion function where the elements must be

Reviewer 2: I don't quite understand this sentence. Are you referring to a record that has a field that is itself a parameterized type? In that case this section is more about *nested parameterized types* I  think.

Author: It's more about DamlList and DamlOptional being creating using pre-converted Java Binding values.

Reviewer 2: Hm, if this is about DamlList and DamlOptional, maybe change the heading to refer to those. As it is, DamlList and DamlOptional aren't product types at all.

Author: Done
